### Features

- The gateway now implements tracing propagation: it can receive tracing context (trace id, parent span id, additional context) from headers in the requests it receives, and pass that context on to subgraphs when it makes requests to them. That enables correlation of requests across network boundaries.

  There are different standards for propagation. In this release, we implement [Trace Context](https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/) and [Baggage](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/baggage/) — the standard OpenTelemetry mechanisms for trace parent and trace context propagation respectively —, and AWS X-Ray. Multiple mechanisms can be combined.

  This is configurable through the `telemetry.tracing.propagation` key in the configuration. For example:

  ```toml
  [telemetry.tracing.propagation]
  trace_context = true
  baggage = true
  ```

  In addition, a new option named `parent_based_sampler` appears in `telemetry.tracing`:

  ```toml
  [telemetry.tracing]
  sampling = 0.2
  parent_based_sampler = true
  ```

  When enabled, the gateway will honor sampling configuration passed in through the `sampled` header (W3C spec), then fall back to its own configuration. This option is disabled by default and should not be enabled if the gateway is exposed directly to the internet, since malicious clients could increase load on the gateway by forcing traces to be recorded.

  See also the [documentation](https://github.com/grafbase/website/pull/2782)

### Fixes

- Correct handling of `operationName`.
- `nbf` claim was required in JWT auth. Now it is only validated if present.
- Gateway does not require the `Accept` header anymore and will default to `application/json` if absent.
