## Features

### Access logs through hooks

We are announcing access logs, which are a bit different from the common logs the gateway outputs to the standard output.

Access logs are always stored into a file, and generated through custom WebAssembly hook functions. This allows you to define what gets logged and when, and in which format the logs are written.

The feature consists the following configuration options:

```toml
[gateway.access_logs]
enabled = true
path = "/path/to/logs"
rotate = "daily"
mode = "blocking"
```

[Read more](https://grafbase.com/docs/self-hosted-gateway#gateway-configuration) on the configuration.

In addition to the configuration, to generate access logs you must implement one or more response hook functions and provide them as WASI hooks ([read more](https://grafbase.com/docs/self-hosted-gateway/hooks) about WASI hooks).

The following hooks are now available to implement:

- `on-subgraph-response` gets called after requesting a subgraph.
- `on-operation-response` gets called after an operation is completed.
- `on-http-response` gets called just before an HTTP response is sent back to the client.

The hooks provide necessary information and metrics on the operation, and the user must define what to log based on this information. The log format can be anything that can be serialized as bytes, ranging from just text, JSON, CSV or XML.

[Read more](https://grafbase.com/docs/self-hosted-gateway/hooks#access-logs-with-response-hooks) on access logs with response hooks.

### Better logs with pretty formatting by default in the terminal

It can be forced with `--log-style pretty`, the previous format is available with `--log-style text`. Now when using `--log debug`, the executed subgraph query with variables and the response are shown.
