## Feature

- It is now possible to define the default authentication strategy with `authentication.default`. If not specified, the current behavior is kept: If there is any authentication mechanism, the default behavior is to deny access as a last resort. Otherwise an anonymous token is generated. This can now be controlled explicitly with `"deny"` and `"anonymous"` values.
- The gateway now transparently supports gzip, brotli, deflate, and zstd compression for subgraph responses. It will advertise support through the `Accept-Encoding` header. That does not apply to the body of requests from the gateway to the subgraph, only responses. If you need opt-in request body compression, please contact us and it will be added in short notice. (https://github.com/grafbase/grafbase/pull/2743)

## Breaking changes

- Authentication extension configuration is now similar to other extension configuration. Previously one had to specify add an `authentication.provider`:

```toml
[extensions.jwt]
version = "1.0.0"

[[authentication.providers]]

[authentication.providers.extension]
extension = "jwt"

[authentication.providers.extension.config]
url = "https://example.com/.well-known/jwks.json"
```

Now it is part of the extension configuration:

```toml
[extensions.jwt]
version = "1.0.0"

[extensions.jwt.config]
url = "https://example.com/.well-known/jwks.json"
```

This means that authentication extensions are now always loaded automatically, whereas previously a provider had to be declared. The ability to re-use the same authentication extension with different configuration has not been kept for now, if you have a need for it please open an issue/talk to us.

- Subgraph error extensions were previously put under the `upstream_extensions` key, now we just re-use the `extensions` as is and only add an error code if not present already.

## Fixes

- fixed HTTP trace export with improved telemetry configuration handling, better merging global & tracing exporter parameters.
