## Breaking

- The location of the local database was moved to a subfolder and will reset after this update

### Features

- Adds an `@openapi` directive that generates queries and mutations that call an API described by an OpenAPI specification.
- Added `grafbase login` & `grafbase logout` commands
- Adds a `create` command to setup and deploy a new project from the command line.
- Adds a `deploy` command to deploy a project from the command line.
- Add initial support for custom resolvers written in JavaScript or TypeScript.
- Add `unlink` and `link` commands.
- Change the auth configuration to require an API key in the locally running gateway.
- Allow environment variables to be interpolated in any string in the schema.
- Continues reloading on schema, resolver and environment variable errors while displaying an error page instead of the playground and returning the compilation error when attempting to call the API endpoint
- Supports the new Grafbase playground
- OpenAPI support improvements
  - Default value support
  - General improvements
- Allows the combination of owner-based auth rules with private/group-based rules in the global scope
- Creates a `.env` file when running `init`

### Fixes

- Fixes a panic in schema parsing if a users type had underscores in its name.
- Fixes a panic in schema parsing if the name of a users type clashed with a generated type.
- Fixes a panic when a missing input argument is passed to a mutation
- The top level namespacing `@openapi` types are no longer optional.
- The names of `@openapi` queries have been improved for APIs with well
  structured specifications
- The names of `@openapi` union types have been improved.
- All CLI output is now capitalized into sentence case
- Exit codes from the CLI are no longer compatible with sysexit
- Environment variables are now supported in all string arguments to `@openapi`
- OpenAPI specifications will no longer select responses that aren't
  `application/json`
- Fixed some inefficiencies in handling introspection queries
- Update the expected resolvers' signature from `({ parent, args, context, info })` to `(parent, args, context, info)`
- Build resolvers concurrently.
- Adjust the output messaging when resolvers are being built.
- Reduce memory consumption required in schema introspection.
- Resolver output tweaks
- Prevents `reset` from removing link files
- Allows introspection without auth locally
- Prevents an issue with `create` when the `.grafbase` folder didn't previously exist
- Adds additional API error hints
